## Meeting Details

- **Date/Time:** March 16th, 2022 @ 6:00pm UTC / 1:00pm ET / 10:00AM PT
- **Location:** [Discord SIG-Security Voice Room](https://discord.gg/FDA3s4FBD2)
- **Moderator:** [Deepak Sharma](https://github.com/dshmz)
- **Note Taker** [Pip Potter](https://github.com/lmnr-pip)

[Agenda](https://github.com/o3de/sig-security/issues/24)

## Meeting Agenda
SIG was asked to contribute to feature matrix work, but we do not own O3DE code

SIG-Network contributors are currently patching OpenSSL

LFX Security Bot Updates
* Asked for trainings on dashboard and how to interpret results 
* Have questions about how often LFX Security Bot data runs / clears issues

Open Security Campaign Status
* No new security advisories on O3DE/O3DE outside of 2 moderates related to python packages.
* 4 open kind/security issues: https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Akind%2Fsecurity+
    * One of Python 3.7.12 patching as discussed above 
    * One for patching OpenSSL, has now testing plan, but pending resources to complete OpenSSL update, that Amazon will provide/

## Open Discussion Items

SIG meetings conflicts with other SIG meetings at same time
* Decision was to migrate SIG time by 30mins to avoid conflicts with UI-UX and Content.

  
## Action items: 
* _Completed_: Split disclosure list from reporting RFC (Pip)
* _Completed_: Advertise charter changes again in sig-sec channels (Pip)
    * Mike C. will get PR for next meeting

* Close out charter updates (Mike C)
* Migrate meeting time (Deepak)
* LFX Security Bot Questions (Pip)
    * See if critical bug has been patched 
    * Reach out to see how often LFX security runs and does it autoclose issues 
    * Followup on trainings, O3DE expectations

