## Meeting Details

- **Date/Time:** May 27th, 2022 @ 6:00pm UTC / 1:00pm ET / 10:00AM PT
- **Location:** [Discord SIG-Security Voice Room](https://discord.gg/FDA3s4FBD2)
- **Moderator:** [Deepak Sharma](https://github.com/dshmz)
- **Note Taker** [Pip Potter](https://github.com/lmnr-pip)

[Agenda](https://github.com/o3de/sig-security/issues/34)

## Meeting Agenda
* Review open security issues
* Accept new maintainers
* Discuss proposal to map CSVS 3.0 scores to issue priority: https://github.com/o3de/sig-security/pull/33


### Agenda Discussion

* Reviewed open items, set priorities and assigned to SIGs
    * One critical marked for May release for Pillow

* SIG accepted new maintainers: [allisaurus](https://github.com/allisaurus) and [amzn-changml](https://github.com/amzn-changml)

* Debated which priority system we should use for CVS scores
* Decided on 3.0, PR to be updated with changes and to change language to say these are the starting priorities.
* SIG-security should work with TSC/all SIGs to set response SLAs

## Open Discussion Items
None

  
## Action items:
* Close out charter updates (Mike C)
* Reach out to contributor who filed round of NVD issues to see if they want to contribute to SIG
* Review LFX security dashboard post release (post May 12th)
* LFX Security Bot Questions (Pip)
    * See if critical bug has been patched 
    * Reach out to see how often LFX security runs and does it autoclose issues 
    * Followup on trainings, O3DE expectations

